1) Using proper pseudo-code, describe the following primitive algorithms:

Making coffee;
FUNCTION
  IF filter is in basket THEN
    IF enough coffee grounds is in filter THEN
      WHILE coffee is not brewed
        keep brewing coffee
      END WHILE
      PRINT coffee
    END IF
  END IF
END FUNCTION

Washing dishes;
INIT scrub daddy, soap, dish
FUNCTION
  WHILE sink is not full of water THEN
    Increment water
  END WHILE
  ADD soap to water
  IF water has soap
    FOR each dirty dish
      put dish in sink and wash
    END FOR
  END IF
  FOR each dish that's in the sink
    IF dish is clean
      rinse dish
      dry dish
      put dish away
    END IF
  END FOR
END FUNCTION

Bowling:
INIT bowling ball, pins
FUNCTION
  IF pins not set up THEN
    SET 10 pins
  END IF
  IF pins are set up THEN
  METHOD roll bowling ball
  END IF
  FOR each pin
    IF pins remain THEN
      METHOD roll bowling ball
    END IF
    ELSE SET 10 pins
  END FOR
END FUNCTION

2) As with the knot algorithm, there may be more than one way to solve the problem. It is essential to try to pick the best algorithm for a situation. Name three companies who created an algorithm that made them successful, e.g., Google's search algorithm. It doesn't need to be a tech example (such as a recipe or manufacturing a product). Google's algorithm produces more relevant results than other search engines; what about each of your cases make them stand out?

COMPANIES:

Tesla - Revolutionized the way to harness electricity in a manner that reduces the need for oil/gas in cars.

They made an algorithm that delivers a slick new vehicle that operates just as efficient, if not more efficient than gas
powered cars.

Nintendo - Innovative in their design, approach, and layout of their video games system and games.

Nintendo has developed an algorithm that combines its innovation
with intuitive game play and design. The ability to use motion
sensor controllers with the system allows for a more interactive
approach to gaming.

Gutenberg Printing Press - Historically changing invention that allowed for much quicker production of print material while reducing manual labor.

Gutenberg developed an algorithm that allows the user to print
materials much quicker than before. He automated the process of
copying text and revolutionized printing forever. 

Tesla the inventor is probably the most impressive of the group. Figured out a way to harness free energy
and many practical applications for it.

3) Hypothesize about what constitutes an efficient algorithm versus an inefficient algorithm.

Efficient algorithm

- Goal is clear and understandable
- Steps are written out in clear, concise manner
- If steps followed, will take a certain amount of time

Inefficient algorithm

- Reader doesn't know the goal or gist right away
- Unclear steps/directions
- Doesn't layout amount of time it could take

The more efficient algorithm will be clear and easily understood
If there is any question as to what a part of an algorithm means,
then there is a good chance that something needs to be revised.

An algorithm that allows the reader to spend the least amount of time trying to interpret what its instructions are and lets the reader start to implement those instructions instead would be considered a well written algorithm.
